Yes, I'm officially on vacation. I will be on vacation for five glorious days because I am clever. I am smart and have actually managed to schedule several of these 4-5 day vacations through the rest of the year.

I have two days off during the week because working the weekends if fucking ridiculously easy and I can't believe more people don't want to do it. But that's okay, we won't say shit to them about how wonderful it is. We'll continue to tell them how horrid it is, "Oh yah, working the weekend while everyone else is off and out and about doing their thing...man it totally sucks!"

But you and I both know that having weekdays off is better because that means there are LESS morons in your way when you want to go do things because they are all stuck at work. You are out enjoying yourself, in the bright sunshine, getting things done in a prompt fashion because they are tucked safely away inside some cube, where they can't annoy the living hell out of you by being their typical stupid selves. So ssshhhh don't say anything.

So, my point....I have two days off during the week and whenever there is a holiday that falls on a Monday or a Friday, all I have to do is take ONE vacation day out of my allottment and I get four days off. Heehee! This time around we are not open on Sunday either so yay! An extra day for me!

And what the hell is with everyone getting all up in your business about your vacation time?

"Where ya going? Whatcha gonna do? You going to see family?"

My answer: "If I wanted you to know that, I would have invited you along. Did I? NO? Then cease with the interrogation. You are a co-worker at https://www.chaturbaterooms.com/. You are not my friend. Capice? None of your fucking business what I do when I'm not around you. The only reason I even talk to your sorry ass is because I have to if I want to get ahead in that shit hole rat race we call a job. If I could get away with telling you what I really think of you or completely ignoring your ignorant ass altogether, I would do so. (It's one of the biggest reasons I wish I could telecommute...I can't stand you! You make me feel physically fucking ill with all your gossping and back stabbing and being snotty bitches.)"
