

The activists and researchers are doing amazing, helpful work.

But they have vastly inadequate support.

On this trip, I wanted to figure out why that’s happening -- and what might be done to stop the pangolin from going extinct. After meeting Lucky at a pangolin rehabilitation and rescue center in Vietnam, I set out to trace his path in reverse. How does a pangolin end up in the illegal trade in the first place? Who runs these operations? What are their motives? How could the trade be shut down? The journey would take me to restaurants and medicine shops where pangolin is sold; to meet with mafia-type pangolin bosses (one of whom offered to sell me -- me who wears hipster glasses, isn’t buff and looks nothing like he belongs in the wildlife mafia -- three tons of pangolins, live); and ended with me running around the forests of Sumatra, Indonesia, learning from poachers exactly why and how they hunt pangolin.

It's possible you've read this far and still are thinking: Why does this matter? That's a question -- and I probably shouldn't admit this up front -- I found myself asking again and again on this trip. It nagged at me from one location to the next, like a thorn stuck in my side. But if you want to understand pangolins -- or the illegal wildlife trade in general – it is perhaps the essential question.

It's the one I needed to answer.

I'd never heard of pangolins.

I got weirdly obsessed with them only after CNN readers voted last year for me to cover illegal wildlife trafficking as part of my Change the List project, which focuses on bringing attention to bottom-of-the-list issues and places. When I started calling up experts on this topic, I had no idea what they were talking about.

Have you heard of the pangolin? one wildlife expert asked by phone.

Ummmm, I said, frantically typing into Google.

How do you spell that again?

The more I learned, however, the more I fell in love with this awkward underdog. Do a quick YouTube search (P-A-N-G-O-L-I-N) and I'm sure you will, too.

Among the gems you'll find:

    Baby pangolins riding around on their mothers' tails.
    Pangolins sticking out their tongues, which are longer than their bodies. (The tongues can be longer than a foot, and they actually start at the pelvis.)
    Chinese pangolins roaming around with ears that look almost human.
    African pangolins toddling on their back legs, like mini-T-Rexes.
    And my favorite: Pangolins rolling up into scale-covered balls to protect themselves from lions and tigers, which just bat at them, seemingly confused.

Pangolins, it turns out, are pretty much invincible in the wild.

We're their only credible threat.

When the door opened to Lucky's cage, he didn't appear to be alive.

He was just this nautilus of rust-colored scales, all spiraled up in a ball inside that underground metal box, which was connected by a concrete pipe to his cage, or "pangolarium," as it's called here at Cuc Phuong National Park.
